---
layout: post
title: ImageNet Classification with Deep Convolutional NN
category: 
    - deeplearning
    - paperreview
description: >

image: /assets/img/blog/imagenet2.jpeg
accent_image:
  background: url('/assets/img/blog/imagenet2.jpeg') center/cover
  overlay: false
accent_color: '#ccc'
theme_color: '#ccc'
invert_sidebar: false
sitemap :
  changefreq : daily
  priority : 1.0
---

* toc
{:toc}

> Deep Learning Papers Reading Roadmap 4th paper\
> [4] Krizhevsky, Alex, Ilya Sutskever, and Geoffrey E. Hinton. "Imagenet classification with deep convolutional neural networks." Advances in neural information processing systems. 2012. [pdf](https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2012/file/c399862d3b9d6b76c8436e924a68c45b-Paper.pdf) (**AlexNet**, Deep Learning Breakthrough) ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐

## AlexNet

stationarity of statistics and locality of pixel dependencies

5 conv + 3 fc

ILSVRC : a subset of ImageNet with roughly 1000 images in each of 1000 categories

arcitecture

* eight learned layers - 5 conv + 3 fc

3.1-3.4에서 1. 퍼포먼스를 향상시키고, 2. 빠른 속도로 훈련되는 방법들에 대해서 말한다. 그리고 section4에서는 어떻게 overfitting prevent를 했는지 말한다.

### 3.1 ReLU(rectified linear units)

$$f(x)=tanh(x) \ or \ f(x)=(1+e^{-x})^{-1}$$와 같은 saturating nonlinearities들을 지금까지 사용했다면, non-saturating no linearity를 사용하는 것이 훨씬(CIFAR-10, four layer 에서 6배 이상) 빠르다고 말한다.

### 3.2 Multiple GPUs

> we employ essentially puts half of the kernels(or neurons) on each GPU, with one additional trick : the GPUs communicate only in certain layers. ex) the kernels of layer 3 take input from all kernel maps in layer 2.

GTX580 3GB를 사용했었는데 imagenet을 담기에는 한계가 있었기에 parallelization scheme을 사용한다.

### 3.3 Local Response Normalization(LRN)

> ReLUs have the desirable property that they do not require input normalization to prevent them from saturating. positive input -> learning will happen in that neuron. Local normalization scheme aids generalization.

$$
\begin{aligned}
 b_{x,y}^i = a_{x,y}^i \Big ( k  + a \sum_{j=\max(0,i-n/2)}^{\min(N-1,i+n/2)}(a_{x,y}^j)^2  \Big )
\end{aligned}
$$

* $$a_{x,y}^i$$ : the activity of a neuron computed by applying kernel $$i$$ at position of $$(x,y)$$
* ReLUf를 적용하고 나면 $$b_{x,y}^i$$
* $$N$$ total # of kernels in the layer
* the sum runs over $$n$$ 'adjacent' kernel maps at the same spatial position
* After applying ReLU nonlinearity in certain layers
* we don't subtract the mean activity $$\to$$ "brightness normalization"
  * compared to local contrast normalization scheme of Jarrett et al.[^1]

This sort of response normalization implements a form of **lateral inhibition** inspired by the type found in real neurons, creating competition for big activities amongst neuron outputs computed using different kernels(the capacity of a neuron to reduce the activity of its neighbors)
{:.note title='what?'}

## References

[^1]: [yann lecun paper - ](http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/publis/pdf/jarrett-iccv-09.pdf)
* [Difference between local response normalization and Batch normalization](https://towardsdatascience.com/difference-between-local-response-normalization-and-batch-normalization-272308c034ac)
* something
